===============================================


complicated  problem 
to besolved,  so  we 
are adding  more text
to see  that    it 
actually       works.
===============================================


New  bombshells show Trump's coup threat
was real and hasn't   passed 
Stephen  
Collinson  Profile

Analysis by Stephen 
Collinson, CNN 

  Updated 10:22 AM ET, 
Wed September 22, 2021


(CNN)A  rush of
new  and  shocking   behind-the-scenes 
disclosures about    how then-President 
Donald Trump    sought   to thwart  the 
Constitution and  the  will  of  voters 
makes a clear  case that  America  came 
closer to a coup  earlier this year than
previously known.
 The  fresh evidence 
also shows what many people  in Trump's 
inner circle knew in January: His  case 
to stay in power was  meritless, but an 
unchained commander in chief  chose  to 
listen     to   acolytes  pushing  wild 
conspiracies. Some of  those who   knew 
the truth refused  to speak up, even as 
American democracy came under   attack.

Just this  week, it's been revealed that
:

    Trump had    blueprints that the 
Republicans   tried  to  use to prevent 
Congress from certifying  President Joe 
Biden' s clear and genuine  victory, in 
the form of a memo that laid out  a plan
for then-Vice President Mike Pence  to 
thwart  Biden' s    Electoral   College 
triumph. The memo was  reported in  the 
new book "Peril,"  by   Washington Post 
reporters Bob Woodward and  Robert Costa
, and    was later obtained by CNN.
    
Trump's own campaign staff   knew  that 
outlandish claims of fraud made  by the 
then-President's lawyers   were utterly 
false, according to a  report in The New
York Times. But   they did  nothing to 
stop     his dangerous allegations.
    
Trump sent a   letter    full of  false 
information  to  Georgia   Secretary of 
State  Brad Raffensperger, asking him to
start  the process of decertifying the 
2020      election.
    "  Peril"  also 
contains  a  passage  that  shows Trump 
cared little  for  truth, what   voters 
decided     in   November  or   bedrock 
constitutional  values -- but agonized  
about  his reputation and    mused that 
accepting  defeat would brand him as one
of  history's   losers.

 This growing 
paper trail, which is likely to  be  of 
intense interest to  the   House select 
committee  investigating the  January 6 
insurrection, appears to prove  Trump's 
intent to stay in  power illegally. The 
record is beginning   to add up  to  an 
extraordinary  indictment of     the ex-
President's abuses of  power and one of 
the darkest moments in US history.

In  
the fraught   days   after the election 
last   year and     after  the  Capitol 
insurrection,    many   observers  were 
unwilling   initially  to use the word  
coup --  aware of  the explosive nature 
of   such  language.       The surreal  
experience  of  watching an assault  on 
constitutional guardrails  once thought 
inviolate also was, at times, hard   to 
process. And  skeptics    of   the coup 
terminology also suggested  that Trump's
efforts  were  little more than madcap 
and  incompetent political theater.
Yet 
the    conspiratorial     and  at times 
clownish  attempts     to  overturn the 
election  -- especially by Trump's legal
team   -- don't make an  unprecedented 
effort to destroy America's  democratic 
traditions  any less  mendacious.

 The 
newly  disclosed  information builds on 
what  was already known      about what 
appears  to be an expansive multi-front 
effort  to destroy a peaceful and  just 
transfer   of power. The  ex-President, 
for instance,  initiated        a  vast 
disinformation   campaign    that   has 
convinced   millions    of  voters  the 
election was stolen, helped by  a pliant
conservative media  pushing  his lies.

Last month, it emerged that  Trump  had 
tried    to   pressure      the Justice 
Department to  declare election   fraud 
and leave    the  business  of stealing 
power   to  him  and  his congressional 
allies.   Trump, of  course, instigated 
another  aspect    often  seen in coups 
against  legitimate power -- a mob -- by
inciting  supporters who  invaded the 
Capitol.
His  corrupt behavior initiated
a  flurry of new  election laws passed 
in Republican-run   states   that could 
make it easier  for Trump  or  a   like-
minded  constitutional arsonist to steal
power  in the     future. And  he  is 
endorsing rafts  of candidates for state
offices   like secretary   of   state, 
creating a   potential   pool  of local 
officials who     could be   minded  to 
interfere in a    future election.
'The 
real problem    for American democracy'

Perhaps the most  concerning aspect  of 
the  torrent of revelations is that the 
danger to American    democracy has not 
passed. It is only  accelerating.
In the
letter    to Raffensperger, Trump made 
the absurd  request  that the official  
start the process of  decertifying the  
2020  election.    There  is   no such  
mechanism   to do  so. Biden's win  has 
long       since    been  legally   and 
constitutionally ratified. And  many of 
Trump's allegations  appear to show that
he  is now completely convinced of his 
own lies and  propaganda -- a fact that 
surely  raises  questions     about the 
mindset of a former  President  who may 
be contemplating a  future run  for the 
White  House.
But  Trump's  conduct  is 
already infecting the integrity of the  
2022 midterm  elections, since  he  has 
effectively wielded  his robust standing
with his party to make  acceptance of 
his   election lies a qualification for 
entry to GOP  races. A  Trump 2024  run 
would likely subject  democratic values 
to an  even greater assault.
All of the 
lies also have a tangible effect. A  CNN
poll   last  week, for instance, found 
that  78% of Republicans do not believe 
that  Biden won  last November  and  is 
therefore not the   legitimate president
.
"The real problem is we  have  one of 
the    two     legacy parties  that  is 
completely bought into this and  doesn't
want  to hear anything  else    but  a 
confirmation of that  untruth  that has 
been told   and that, I think,  is  the 
most  dangerous     thing   facing  our 
democracy," Matthew    Dowd,   a former 
strategist for ex-President   George W. 
Bush,  told  CNN'  s  Erin Burnett   on 
Tuesday.
 The book by Woodward and Costa
that   was published on  Tuesday after 
days    of   dripped-   out revelations 
includes a  new story about conservative
lawyer John  Eastman, who came up with 
a scheme   to try  to convince Pence to 
throw out  electors from   seven states 
where      Republicans  falsely claimed 
election irregularities  and to declare 
Trump the winner during the    election 
certification      process     that was 
ultimately            disrupted by  the 
insurrection.
The   plan   anticipated "
howls"  from Democrats    -- a stunning 
understatement      since  the  process 
effectively  mandated the stealing of an
election. So the  memo   contained a 
backup  plan for Pence to  say that no  
candidate had    reached 270  electoral 
votes, so the election should  be turned
over to the House  of Representatives, 
CNN's   Jamie Gangel   and  Jeremy Herb 
report.
 Such a  step  would initiate a 
constitutional   tie- breaker in  which 
each state    delegation would get  one 
vote. Since the  GOP controlled 26 state
delegations, a  majority could vote for
Trump  to win  the election.
The  plan 
was  met with great skepticism by two of
Trump's allies on  Capitol Hill, Sens. 
Lindsey Graham  of South  Carolina  and 
Mike Lee   of Utah, Costa  and Woodward 
report. But  that hasn'  t stopped  the 
former President and his  henchmen from 
continuing  to claim that Pence  simply 
elected not   to use  power inherent in 
his office.
 Of course, that  authority 
does not   exist.
Eastman told CNN that 
the memo was only  a preliminary draft. 
But that did not  stop Trump using it to
try to convince Pence to keep him in 
power or   fueling false beliefs inside 
the conservative movement  that Trump is
the rightful  president. In any event, 
Pence wrote a  letter on the morning of 
January 6 saying  that he did not  have 
the  authority to  intervene  to change 
the election result, even  as Trump said
at  his pre-insurrection rally that the
vice president   should    have the "
courage" to    act.
The  antithesis  of 
democracy
The most  stunning aspect of  
these  reports is  that  Trump and some 
people  around  him  actually  believed 
that a      US election could simply be 
disregarded if the   President  didn' t 
like the result  -- the very antithesis 
of   democracy.
While the scheme  that  
Trump  preferred  did not  play out, it 
most   alarmingly appears to  sketch  a 
road map under  which several states in 
a  future   race     could prevent  the 
certification  of elections to deprive a
candidate    like  Biden   of  the 270 
electoral  votes needed    to win   the 
presidency.
The  New York Times' report 
said the Trump    campaign  had already 
concluded that outlandish   claims that 
voting  machines  had  been  interfered 
with -- which  were aggressively pushed 
by the ex-President's lawyers  -- were  
not true.  But   the campaign  did not  
apparently   feel a    civic  or  moral 
obligation  to   say  so. Later   media 
appearances      by  Rudy  Giuliani and 
another pro-Trump  lawyer, Sidney Powell
, expanded  the conspiracy theories  -- 
and   Trump weaponized  the   claims to 
further his  lies about election fraud.

And in   another nugget from   "Peril," 
Costa revealed Tuesday on     CNN  that 
Trump had dismissed the  idea  that his 
legacy could   be       best served  by 
accepting his loss,  in  a conversation 
with  his confidante Hope Hicks.

"I don
't care about  my legacy.  My   legacy  
doesn't matter. If I lose, that  will be
my  legacy. My   people expect  me  to 
fight and if I don't, I'll  lose them," 
Trump said, according to the  book.
That
attitude --  rooted  in  a lie   and a 
president's own flawed character -- is  
what appears  to   be  still motivating 
Trump's  ever   more fevered  claims of 
stolen votes, and  possibly a new bid to
regain power. And it explains why  the 
danger stalking American democracy  has 
far                   from    passed.



